# Board 1. Switching

This board contains 16 relay channels, each is controlled and monitored.

## Communication

RC3 SCK
RC4 SDA

## Relay controls

The relays are controlled with 2 shift registers MC74HC595A connected in series.

| Bit | ID | Channel Name |
|---|---|---|
| 0 | 14 | instruments |
| 1 | 15 | main |
| 2 | 0 | autopilot |
| 3 | 1 | bow_light |
| 4 | 2 | stern_light |
| 5 | 3 | steaming_light |
| 6 | 4 | anchor_light |
| 7 | 13 | cabin_lights |
| 8 | 5 | tricolor_light |
| 9 | 6 | fresh_water_pump |
| 10 | 7 | fridge |
| 11 | 8 | inverter |
| 12 | 9 | aux1 |
| 13 | 10 | aux2 |
| 14 | 11 | deck_lights |
| 15 | 12 | usb |

The 0 is lowest bit transmitted last.

### Pinout

RA0 A
RA1 LATCH_CLK
RA2 SHIFT_CLK
RB1 nRST

The nOUT_EN is connected to GND.

## Relay channel monitoring

The relay channel output is monitored via 2 multiplexer/demultiplexer SN74LV4051A connected in parallel.
Logical 1 on the input means the channel has power.

| Bit | Multiplexer | Channel Name |
|---|---|---|
| 2 | 1 | instruments |
| 5 | 0 | main |
| 7 | 0 | autopilot |
| 6 | 0 | bow_light |
| 4 | 0 | stern_light |
| 3 | 0 | steaming_light |
| 0 | 0 | anchor_light |
| 1 | 1 | cabin_lights |
| 1 | 0 | tricolor_light |
| 2 | 0 | fresh_water_pump |
| 5 | 1 | fridge |
| 7 | 1 | inverter |
| 6 | 1 | aux1 |
| 4 | 1 | aux2 |
| 3 | 1 | deck_lights |
| 0 | 1 | usb |

The addressing of the multiplexer is done with A B and C pins, simultaneous for both multiplexers. Reading done through COM pin. The nINH is connected to GND.

### Pinout

RB3 0A 1A
RB4 0B 1B
RB5 0C 1C
RA3 0COM
RA4 1COM

## Level sensors

The fresh water tank and fuel tank levels are measured by voltage on corresponding pins. The voltage is generated by current source and is correlated lineary with the resistance of the floats. Float can function in 0-190 Ω or 240–33 Ω. Current source is fixed at 5mA. The resistance of the wire should be taken into account when converting voltage to tank level (an offset value stored in EEPROM config).

Battery voltage is divided by 10 and sent to ADC input on the controller. Battery is a 12V acid. The voltage can be correlated with its charge via formula or lookup table.

### Pinout

RA7 Fuel tank level
RA5 Fresh water tank level
RA6 Battery voltage

## Other sensors

Additionally the chip is monitoring 3 on/off channels. High or low level on the pins indicates channel state.

RC1 Bilge float triggered
RC2 Shore power present
RC5 AC power present
